# escape-VR
For our project, we are creating a Virtual Reality experience that will have the player interact with objects in the virtual environment to escape entrapment. The setting takes place in a volcano and the player is trapped in a cage on an island surrounded by lava inside of a volcano with a single land bridge. A supposed wizard has found that the player was messing around with their special box of magical items and they’ve accidentally teleported themselves into a cage within a boiling volcano. As a means to teach the player a lesson, the wizard activates the volcano in an attempt to scare and kill the player. The player, however, wasn't the only item teleported. Various items from the wizard’s room are teleported alongside the player, items that will be used to aid in escaping the clutches of the volcano. 

There are multiple ways to get free from the cage, which include hitting a button to unlock the door, using an object to hit the guard, finding a code to unlock a box with a laser to melt the bars, or simply finding the key. As the timer runs down, the area gets hotter and the player slows down and the screen is tinted red to simulate the experience of being burned alive. Under a certain time, the player will drop the item if it is held for too long. Based on the time counting down, the rumble of the volcano and the lava sound grew louder.

How we will be able to interact with the scene is by the use of the Oculus Quest 2. In the environment, the player will use the HOMER technique to select an object using ray casting and then manipulate the object directly. For the User Interface, our application will utilize ray casting for selection and use occlusion to highlight interactable objects of interest.

To create a more immersive experience, we aim to implement environmental sounds that compliment the area, such as the sound of lava, footsteps for walking around in the environment, and sound effects when certain interactions occur. If time permits, we can implement a system that distorts the sound after a certain amount of time has elapsed to create a sense of danger for the user. The audio will be presented in stereo as well as opposed to mono audio as we are attempting to simulate existence in a 3D space.

As for the hardware, our team will use the Oculus Quest 2 with the input coming from the two controllers to interact with the environment. The output will include audio sound effects produced by the environment which will be broadcast to the headphones. However, for testing purposes due to limited access to the hardware, we will implement keyboard support, but this will not be the primary means of interaction.
